# 第一章 整除

## 1.2 Division Algorithm

**Axiom 1.2.1 (Well Ordering Principle/W.O. Principle of $\N$ )** if $\phi \neq A\subset \N $, then there exists a minimal elment $m=minA$, satisfying:

1.  $m\in A$
2. $\forall a\in A,\  m\leq a$



**Property 1.2.2 (Uniqueness of $min A$)** if m and n both satisfy these two conditions, then $m=n$.

*Proof:*

First, by first condition, $m,n\in A$.

By second condition, $m\leq n$  b/c  $n\in A$; likewise, $n\leq m$.

So $m=n$. This shows the uniqueness of $min A$.



**Theorem 1.2.3 (Induction Principle)** Let $p(n)$ be a proposition for $n\in \N_m=\{m, m+1,\cdots\}$ ($p\in N_m$), then $p(n)$ is true for all $n\in \N_m$ if and only if:

1. $p(m)$
2. $\forall n\in \N_m,\  p(n)\implies p(n+1)$

*Proof:*

$“\Longrightarrow"$ Assume $p(n)$ is true for all $n\in \N_m$, then p(m)  b/c $m\in \N_m$.

Next, let $n\in \N_m$. Since both $p(n)$ and $p(n+1)$ are true, so the implication is true for all $n\in\N_m$.

$“\Longleftarrow”$By contradiction, assume $p(n)$ is false for some $n\in \N_m$. Then let $A=\{n\in\N_m |\ p(n)\text{ is false} \} \neq \phi$.

By W.O. Principle, let $k=minA$.

*Case 1:* if $k=m$, then $p(m)$ is false. But we know that $p(n)$ is true. Contradiction.

*Case 2:* if $k>m$, then $p(k-1)$ is true, because by definition, k is the smallest number n in $\N_m$ such that $p(n)$ is false. But by the seond condition, $p(k-1)\implies p(k)$. So $p(k)$ is true. Contradiction.

Therefore, we must have $p(n)$ is true for all $n\in \N_m$.



**Homework 1.2.1  (Strong Induction Principle)** Let $p(n)$ be a proposition for $n\in \N_m=\{m, m+1,\cdots\}$ ($p\in N_m$), then $p(n)$ is true for all $n\in \N_m$ if and only if:

1. $p(m)$
2. $\forall n\in \N_m,\  p(m),\ p(m+1),\  \cdots ,\ p(n)\implies p(n+1)$

*Hint: Using W.O. principles with a slightly different proof.*



**Theorem 1.2.4 (Division Algorithm)**  if $a\in \Z, b\in \N_1$, then there exist unique $q,r\ \text{in } \Z$ such that:

1. $a=qb+r$
2. $0\leq r\leq b-1$

*Proof:*

**Uniqueness:** 

Assume $a=q_1b+r_1=q_2b+r_2.\  0\leq r_1,r_2\leq b-1$.

Then $(q_1-q_2)b=r_2-r_1.\ -(b-1)\leq r_2-r_1\leq (b-1)$

So $b|(r_2-r_1)$, but $-(b-1)\leq r_2-r_1\leq (b-1)$

So $r_2-r_1=0 \implies r_1=r_2$

$(q_1-q_2)b=0 \implies q_1=q_2$  b/c  $b\neq 0$

Thus, q and r must be unique if they exist.

**Existence:** 

Assume $a\in \N_0$. (The case when $a<0$ is left as homework exercise.)

Let $S=\{r\in N_0|\ r=a-qb,\  q\in\Z \}$

Then $S\neq \phi$  b/c  $0\leq a= a-0\cdot b\in S$ (since we assume $a\in \N_0$)

By W.O. Principle, let $r_0 = minS \geq0$ with $r_0 = a-q_0b$  by construction of S.

Now we only need to show that $r_0 \leq b-1$.

By contradiction, assume $r_0\geq b$.

Then let $r' = r_0-b = a-(q_0+1)b \in S$  because $r'\geq 0$.

This contradicts that $r=minS$, because $r'\in S$, and $r'<r$.

This concludes the proof.



**Homework 1.2.2** Prove the existence part of Theorem 1.2.4 when $a<0$.

*Hint:  simply construct some $q\in\Z$ such that $a-qb\geq 0.$*.

