### 1.2 More Examples of Groups

#### The group of roots of unity in $\C$

**Ex 1.2.1** Consider the equation $z^n=1$. In $\C$, it has $n$ roots called **roots of unity**. They are:
$$
G = \{e^{\frac{2\pi ik}n}|\ k\in\N_{\leqslant n-1}\}
$$
and you can find $G$ is a group under **multiplication**.

#### The symmetrical group

   A bijection $f:\{1,2,3\}\to\{1,2,3\}$, for example

| $x$    | $1$  | $2$  | $3$  |
| ------ | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| $f(x)$ | $2$  | $3$  | $1$  |

has a simple expression:
$$
f=
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & 2 & 3 \\
2 & 3 & 1
\end{pmatrix}
$$
​    All of these bijections consist a set, which we write $S_3$. 

**Proposition 1.2.1** If maps $f:A\to A,g:A\to A$ are all bijective, and $A$ is a finite set, then $f\circ g: A\to A$ is bijective.

**Ex 1.2.2** The set $S_3$ with composition $\circ$, is a group
​    Hint: You need to find the identity and the inverse of each element.
​    We called $(S_3,\circ)$ the **symmetrical group of degree 3**. 

**Ex 1.2.3** Guess the form of the group $S_4$.

#### Dihedral groups

​    All rigid motion, which make regular triangle coincide with the 'old one', form a group, which is called the dihedral group of degree 6 and denoted by $D_6$. (In some textbooks this group is written as $D_3$) 
​    For the **regular n-gon**, all rigid motions form such a group:
$$
D_{2n}=\left<\sigma,\ \tau|\ \sigma^n=e,\ \tau^2=e,\ \tau\sigma = \sigma^{-1}\tau\right>
$$
**Ex 1.2.4** Try to use regular 4 and 5-gon and write the group $D_8$ and $D_{10}$. Do these satisfy the general expression of $D_{2n}$?

#### Generators and relations

​    In general, we can express a group by
$$
G = \left<S|\ R_1,R_2,\cdots,R_n\right>
$$
where $S$ is called **the generator set**, in which any element is called **the generator** of $G$, and $R_1,R_2,\cdots,R_n$ is called **relations** of $G$. This kind of expression is called a **representation** of the group $G$. 

**Ex 1.2.5** **Klein 4-group**

​    A set $K_4=\{e,a,b,ab\}$, with product $\cdot$ and such **relations**:
$$
a^2=b^2=e, ab=ba
$$
Try to prove that it's an Abelian group and write its representation.

#### The Group included in linear space

**Ex 1.2.6** If $V$ is a linear space, then $(V,+)$ is a Abelian group.

**Ex 1.2.7** Consider the set of continuous function on $[a,b]$, $C^0[a,b]$, we have $C^0[a,b]$ with the addition between functions is a group.

**Ex 1.2.8** Let $\R[x]$ be the set of all polynomials which coefficients are all real, prove that $(\R[x],+)$ is a group. How about the set $\C[x]$?

#### Direct Products

**Definition 1.2.2** The Direct product, $G_1\times \cdots\times G_n$.
    Let $(G_1,\ast_1),\cdots,(G_n,\ast_n)$ are some groups. Define the direct product of these groups
$$
G_1\times\cdots\times G_n = \{(g_1,\cdots,g_n)|\ \forall i\in\N^*_{\leqslant n},g_i\in G_i\}
$$
and the operation on the direct product
$$
(g_1,\cdots,g_n)\ast(g'_1,\cdots,g'_n) = (g_1\ast_1 g'_1,\cdots,g_n\ast_ng'_n)
$$

**Ex 1.2.9** Prove that the direct product with the operation $\ast$ is a group.

**Ex 1.2.10** [!] Let $G=\{(a,b)|\ a\in R_*, b\in R\}$. Define the multiplication
$$
(a,b)(c,d) = (ac,ad+b)
$$
Prove that $(G,\cdot)$ is a group.

