### 1.6 Homomorphisms

#### The definition of homomorphisms

**Definition 1.6.1** homomorphisms
    Let $(G,\cdot)$ and $(H,\circ)$ are two groups. A map $f:G\to H$ s.t. for all $x,y\in G$
$$
f(a\cdot b) = f(a)\circ f(b)
$$
is called a homomorphism.

**Ex 1.6.1** Assume $U = \{x\in \C|\ x^n=1\}$ and $\sigma=e^{2\pi/n}$. Define a map:
$$
\begin{align}
f: \Z_n &\to (U,\cdot) \\
     \bar i &\mapsto \sigma^i
\end{align}
$$
then its inverse map
$$
\begin{align}
f^{-1}: (U,\cdot) &\to \Z_n \\
         \sigma^i &\mapsto \bar i
\end{align}
$$
is a homomorphism.

**Definition 1.6.2** isomorphisms/ isomorphic, $G\cong H$
    Let $f:G\to H$ is a (group) homomorphism. If $f$ is a bijection, then we will call $f$ is an isomorphism. And $G$ and $H$ are said to be **isomorphic**, written $G\cong H$.

**Ex 1.6.2** 
​    (1) For two linear space $V,W$ and a linear map $T:V\to W$, if we view linear spaces as groups and only consider the addition, then $T$ is a homomorphism. 
​    (2) What's more, if $\dim V=\dim W$, then $T$ is an isomorphism. 

**Ex 1.6.3** Let $G_1,\cdots, G_n$ are groups. Define the $i^{th}$ **projection** of the direct product $G_1\times\cdots\times G_n$
$$
\begin{align}
\pi_i:G_1\times\cdots\times G_n &\to G_i \\
  (g_1,\cdots,g_n) &\mapsto g_i
\end{align}
$$
Then this map is a homomorphism.

**Ex 1.6.4** Try to find a homomorphism from $(\R,+)$ to $(\R_+,\cdot)$.

**Ex 1.6.5** [*,!] Prove that $(\Q,+)$ and $(\Q^\ast,\cdot)$ are not isomorphic.

#### Some basic properties of homomorphisms

**Theorem 1.6.3** keep the identity and inverse
    Let $f:G\to H$ is a homomorphism. $e$ is the identity of $G$, and $e'$ is the identity of $H$. We have
    (1) $f(e)=e'$.
    (2) If $g\in G$, then $f(g^{-1})=(f(g))^{-1}$.

**Ex 1.6.6** Let $f:G\to H$ is a homomorphism. If $g$ is in $G$, then for arbitrary $n\in\Z$, $f(g^n)=(f(g))^n$.

#### Review: null and image space of a linear map

   There are two subspaces with respect to a linear map $T: V\to W$, null space (or kernel) and image space (or range):
$$
\ker T = \{\vec v\in V|\ T\vec v=\vec 0\} \\
\mathrm{im} T = \{T\vec v\in W|\ \forall\vec v\in V \}
$$
**Theorem L.1** subspaces
​    (1) null space $\ker T$ is a subspace of domain $V$.
​    (2) image space $\mathrm{im} T$ is a subspace of co-domain $W$.

**Theorem L.2** injective and surjective
​    (1) A linear map $T: V\to W$ is injective, iff. $\ker T=\{\vec 0\}$.
​    (2) A linear map $T: V\to W$ is surjective, iff. $\mathbb{im} T=W$.

**Theorem L.3** nullity+rank
    (1) For arbitrary linear map $T: V\to W$, $\dim V = \dim\ker T + \dim\mathbb{im}T$.
    (2) Thus, for respective quotient space $T/\ker T$, $\dim(T/\ker T) = \dim \mathbb{im}T$, then $T/\ker T \cong \mathbb{im}T$. 

#### Kernel and image

**Definition 1.6.4** kernel and image
    For a homomorphism $f:G\to H$, define the **kernel** of $f$ which includes all elements in $G$ that map to the identity $e'$ of $H$.
$$
\ker f = \{g\in G|\ f(g) = e'\}
$$
​    We also define the **image** of $f$ which includes all images under $f$ of elements in $G$.
$$
\mathrm{im} f = \{f(g)|\ \forall g\in G\}
$$

**Ex 1.6.7** Discuss the kernel and image of homomorphism in **Example 2**.

**Ex 1.6.8** Discuss the kernel and image of homomorphism in **Example 4**.

**Ex 1.6.9** For the $i^{th}$ projection $\pi_i$, $N=G_1\times\cdots\times\{e_i\}\times\cdots\times G_n \cong G_1\times\cdots\times G_{i-1}\times G_{i+1}\times\cdots\times G_n$ and $I=G_i$. 

**Theorem 1.6.5** subgroups with respect to a homomorphism
    Let $f:G\to H$ is a homomorphism, then we have
    (1) $\ker f \lhd G$.
    (2) $\mathrm{im} f \leqslant H$.

**Ex 1.6.10** Using **1.5.3** to prove
$$
SL_n(C) \lhd GL_n(C)
$$
**Ex 1.6.11** [!] Let $f:G\to H$ is a homomorphism, and $M$ is a subgroup of $G$. Try to prove that $f^{-1}(f(M))=(\ker f)M$.

**Theorem 1.6.6** injective and surjective
    Let $f:G\to H$ is a homomorphism. $e$ is the identity of $G$, and $e'$ is the identity of $H$. Then we have:
    (1) A homomorphism $f:G\to H$ is injective, iff. $\ker f=\{e\}$.
    (2) A homomorphism $f:G\to H$ is surjective, iff. $\mathbb{im} f=H$. (Actually it's the definition of the surjection. We put it here because it is parallel with (1).)