### 1.8 Cyclic Groups

#### Definition of cyclic groups

**Definition 1.8.1** cyclic groups, $\left<a\right>$
    A group $G$ is cyclic if it is generated by only one element, i.e., $G=\left<a\right>=\{a^n|\ n\in\Z\}$.

**Ex 1.8.1** Prove that $(n\Z,+)$ is a cyclic group.

**Theorem 1.8.2** A cyclic group is Abelian. [**Ex 1.8.2**]

#### The structure of cyclic group

**Lemma 1.8.3** 'the upper limit of the order'
    For a cyclic group $G=\left<a\right>$, if there exists $n\in \N_+$ s.t. $a^n=e$, then the order of $G$ is **at most** $n$. In particular, if $n\in\N_+$ is the smallest positive integer s.t. $a^n=e$, then the order of $G$ is $n$.

**Theorem 1.8.4** the structure of cyclic groups
    For a cyclic group $G=\left<a\right>$:
    (1) If $G$ is infinite, then $G\cong (\Z,+)$
    (2) If $G$ is finite and with the order $n$, then $G\cong (\Z_n,+)$

**Ex 1.8.3** Define the map $f:\Z\to (\left<a\right>,+),\ i\mapsto a^i$, then $f$ is a surjective homomorphism. 

#### The order of an element

**Definition 1.8.5** the order of an element, $|a|$
    For a group $G$ and an element $a\in G$, define the **order** of $a$ to be the **smallest** positive integer $n$ s.t. $a^n=e$, which is denoted by $|a|=n$. If such an $n$ does not exist, we say the order of $a$ is **infinite** ($|a|=\infty$). 

**Ex 1.8.4** In group $D_6$, the order of any elements are

| $x$   | $e$  | $\sigma$ | $\sigma^2$ | $\tau$ | $\tau\sigma$ | $\tau\sigma^2$ |
| ----- | ---- | -------- | ---------- | ------ | ------------ | -------------- |
| $|x|$ | $1$  | $3$      | $3$        | $2$    | $2$          | $2$            |

Try to check them all.

**Ex 1.8.5** In group $K_4$, try to get the order of any elements.

**Ex 1.8.6** Assume $a,b$ are in group $G$,
​    (1) $|a|=|a^{-1}|$
​    (2) [*] $|ab|=|ba|$

**Theorem 1.8.6** If $G$ is a finite group, then the order of any element in $G$ is a factor of $|G|$.

**Theorem 1.8.7** 'compute the order'
    Assume $g,h$ are in the group $G$. The order of $g$ and $h$ are $m$ and $n$, respectively.
    (1) For any $i\in \Z_+$, the order of $g^i$ is $m/(i,m)$.
    (2) If $gh=hg$ and $(m,n)=1$, then the order of $gh$ is $mn$.

**Proposition 1.8.8** every order is $2$.
​    For a group $G$, if the order of any element except $e$ is $2$, then $G$ is Abelian.

**Ex 1.8.7** Use **1.8.8** to prove that $K_4$ is Abelian.

#### Subgroups of the cyclic group

**Theorem 1.8.9** subgroups of the cyclic group
​    Given a cyclic group $G=\left<a\right>$, 
​    (1) if $G$ is infinite, then for every $m\in\Z_+$, there is a unique subgroup $G_m=\left<a^m\right>$ which the index of is $m$. $\{e\}$ with them are a whole subgroups of $G$.
​    (2) if $G$ is finite with the order $n$, then for every **positive factor** of $n$, which is expressed as $m$, there is a unique subgroup $G_m=\left<a^m\right>$ which the index of is $m$ and the order is $n/m$. They are a whole subgroups of $G$.

**Ex 1.8.8** Write all subgroups of $(\Z_{18},+)$.

**Proposition 1.8.10** prime order groups
​    If the order of a group $G$ is a prime $p$, then $G\cong \Z_p$.

**Theorem 1.8.11** generators of a cyclic group
​    Given a cyclic group $G=\left<a\right>$, 
​    (1) if $G$ is infinite, then $G$ has two generators, $a$ or $a^{-1}$.
​    (2) if $G$ is finite with the order $n$, then for every $m\in\N_{\leqslant n-1}$ which is coprime with $n$, $a^m$ is a generator of $G$. Totally $G$ has $\varphi(n)$ generators. ($\varphi(n)$: Euler's function.)