### 2.1 Definition of Rings

#### Definition of rings

**Definition 2.1.1** rings

​     A ring is a set $R$ with two binary operation '$+$', '$\cdot$' **on $R$**, satisfying the following axioms:

​    (1) ('addition') $(R,+)$ is an **Abelian group**. (the identity: $0$; the inverse of $a$: $-a$)

​    (2) ('multiplication') '$\cdot$' is **associative**: for all $a,b,c\in R$, $(ab)c=a(bc)$.

​    (3) (the **distributive** laws) for all $a,b,c\in R$, $(a+b)c=ac+bc$ and $c(a+b)=ca+cb$.

**Ex 2.1.1** How about $M_n(\C):=(\C^{n\times n},+,\cdot)$ ?

**Properties 2.1.2** some properties of operations

​    If $(R,+,\cdot)$ is a ring, then we have

​    (1) $0a=a0=0$, for any $a\in R$.

​    (2) for all $a,b\in R$, $(-a)b=-(ab)=a(-b)$ and $(-a)(-b)=ab$.

​    (3) for all $a_1,\cdots,a_m,b_1,\cdots, b_n\in R$, 
$$
\left(\sum_{i=1}^m a_i\right)\left(\sum_{j=1}^n b_j\right) 
= \sum_{i=1}^m\sum_{j=1}^n a_ib_j
$$

​    (4) for $n\in\Z$, $a,b\in R$, $(na)b=n(ab)=a(nb)$. [**Ex 2.1.1**]

​    (5) if $R$ has an identity, then it is unique. [**Ex 2.1.2** [*] Hint: review the proof of **1.1.4**]

#### Commutative and with an identity

**Definition 2.1.3** additional properties of rings (I)

​    (1) A ring $R$ is **commutative** if multiplication is commutative, i.e. for all $a,b\in R$, $ab=ba$. 

​    (2) A ring $R$ has **an identity** (denoted by $1$) if there is an element $1\in R$ s.t. for all $a\in R$, $1\cdot a=a\cdot 1=a$.

**Example 2** **the trivial ring**. 

​    For arbitrary Abelian group $(R,+)$, define the multiplication $ab=0$, for any $a,b\in R$. Then $(R,+,\cdot)$ is a commutative ring with an identity. [**Ex 2.1.3**] 

​    In the further learning, we always assume $1\neq 0$, if there is an identity.

**Example 3** The integer set $\Z$ with addition and multiplication is a commutative ring **with** the identity, but the even integer set $2\Z$ with addition and multiplication is a commutative ring **without** the identity. [**Ex 2.1.4**]

#### The inverse and fields

**Definition 2.1.4** the inverse with respect to the multiplication

​    Assume $R$ is a **ring with the identity**,

​    (1) if there are $a,c\in R$ s.t. $ac=1$, then we say $c$ is **left invertible** and $a$ is a **left inverse** of $c$. Similarly, we say $a$ is **right invertible** and $c$ is a **right inverse** of $a$.

​    (2) if $a\in R$ has a left inverse $c$ and a right inverse $c'$ at the same time, then we can prove that $c=c'$.[**Ex 2.1.5** [*] Hint: review the proof of **1.1.5**] 

​    This unique element is called **the inverse** of $a$ (with respect to the multiplication), which is denoted by $a^{-1}$. And $a$ is called a **unit** of $R$.

**Ex 2.1.6** all units with the multiplication form a group.

**Definition 2.1.5** the group of units

​    Assume $R$ is a **ring with the identity**, then all units in $R$ with the multiplication form a group, which is called the group of units of $R$ and denoted by $(U(R),\cdot)$.

**Definition 2.1.6** skew field and field

​    Assume $R$ is a **ring with the identity**,

​    (1) if $U(R)=R_*$, then $R$ is called a ***skew field** (or **division field**).

​    (2) if a skew field $R$ is also a commutative ring, then $R$ is called a **field**.

**Example 6** The **real Hamilton Quaternions**

​    Let $\H=\{a+bi+cj+dk|\ a,b,c,d\in\R\}$. Define the addition
$$
(a+bi+cj+dk)+(a'+b'i+c'j+d'k):=(a+a')+(b+b')i+(c+c')j+(d+d')k
$$
and the multiplication by expanding $(a+bi+cj+dk)(a'+b'i+c'j+d'k)$ using the distributive laws and simplifying using such relations
$$
i^2=j^2=k^2=1 \\
ij=k,jk=i,ki=j \\
kj=-i,ji=-k,ik=-j \\
ai=ia,aj=ja,ak=ka, \forall a\in \R
$$
Then $(\H,+,\cdot)$ is a skew field. [**Ex 2.1.7**]

**Ex 2.1.8** [*] Assume
$$
L=\left\{\left.\begin{pmatrix}
z & w \\
-\bar w & \bar z
\end{pmatrix}\right|\ z,w\in \C\right\}
$$
Define the addition and multiplication as usual, the prove that $L$ is a skew field. And can you find the relationship between $L$ and $\H$?

#### Zero divisors and integral domains

**Definition 2.1.7** zero divisors

​    Assume $R$ is a **ring**, 

​    (1) if there are $x,y\in R_*$ s.t. $xy=0$, then we say $x$ is a **left zero divisor**, and $y$ is a **right zero divisor**.

​    (2) if $x\in R_*$ is a left zero divisor **and** a right zero divisor at the same time, then we say $a$ is a **zero divisor**.

**Proposition 2.1.8** a property of $\Z_n$

​    (1) For each $n\in\Z_{\geqslant2}$, $\Z_n$ is a commutative ring with the inverse.[**Ex 2.1.9**]

​    (2) Furthermore, if $n$ is a prime, then $\Z_n$ is a field.


**Ex 2.1.10** Write zero divisors and the unit group of $\Z_7$ and $\Z_{12}$, respectively.

**Example 8** We have known $(C^0[a,b],+)$ is an Abelian group. Using the knowledge in analysis, we can prove that $(C^0[a,b],+,\cdot)$ is a **commutative ring with the identity**, with the multiplication defined as $\forall x,\ (fg)(x)=f(x)g(x)$. [**Ex 2.1.11**]

**Example 9** Assume the set $F=\{f:\R\to\R\}$ of all functions defined on the whole real number set. Define two operations on $F$ as follows: for any $f,g\in F$ and $\forall x\in \R$,
$$
(f+g)(x) := f(x)+g(x) \\
(f\cdot g)(x) := f\circ g(x)
$$
then $(F,+,\cdot)$ is a **ring with the identity**. [**Ex 2.1.12**] 

**Ex 2.1.13** Assume $R$ is a ring with the identity, try to prove that

​    (1) if $a\in R$ is left invertible and not a right zero divisor, then $a$ has a unique left inverse.

​    (2) if $a\in R$ has **more than one** left inverse, then $a$ must have infinitely many left inverse.

**Ex 2.1.14** Assume $R$ is a ring and $a\in R_*$, try to prove that

​    (1) $a$ is not a left divisor iff. for any $b,c\in R$, $ab=ac\to b=c$.

​    (2) $a$ is not a right divisor iff. for any $b',c'\in R$, $b'a=c'a\to b'=c'$.

**Ex 2.1.15** Assume $R$ is a ring and $a\in R$. We called $a$ is **nilpotent** if there is an $m\in\N_*$ s.t. $a^m=0$.

​    (1) When $R$ is commutative and $a,b\in R$ are nilpotent, then $a+b$ is nilpotent. That is to say, all nilpotent elements in $R$ is a additive Abelian group.

​    (2) [*,!] If $R$ is not commutative, is the conclusion in (1) also right?

**Definition 2.1.8** integral domains
​    Assume $R$ is a **commutative ring with the identity**. If there is no zero divisor in $R$, then we called $R$ is an integral domain.